# Walter Benjamin Demonstration Project

The goal here is to demonstrate the generality of methods developed for Open Greek and Latin in general and for Homer in particular. This reflects not only the rapid expansion of digital technology but also a sudden expansion in the power, and potential impact, of a philological tradition that extends thousands of years into the past. To explore these methods, we have chosen two works by Walter Benjamin: his essay on the Work of Art in an Age of Mechanical Representation and an edition of Baudelaire' Tableaux Parisiens that includes not only both the French original and German translation but an essay by Benjamin on the task of the translator. While these two works allow us to illustrate new practices of reading and reflection, the content of both of these works clearly provokes reflection on the shift to a digital medium.

## Background

Increasingly powerful digital methods for close reading have made possible new ways for us to work with more languages than we could every hope to master. We have now already in place a middle path between mastery of a foreign language and complete reliance upon translation into a language that we can understand. Translation, in some fashion, may remain essential but translation undergoes a fundamental role in its relationship to the original: the translation is not a static barrier but also an entry point directly into source text upon which it is based. Our goal is draw the minds of the readers past the translation -- or translations (for multiple translations should be seen as the default goal in any truly digital space) -- and embrace the source, not just as a text, but as a living entity, to be spoken and lived.

We have been able to use the Homeric epics to model a new form of reading for two reasons. First, a number of projects have published a great deal of machine-actionable information about the Homeric Epics  under an open license. These include comments on the grammar of particular passages in reference works such as Smyth and Kühner-Gerth, machine actionable versions of print commentaries, and both the Autenreith and Cunliffe Homeric lexica. We also have treebanks: databases of annotations identifying the dictionary entry, part of speech, morphological form, and syntactic function for every word in the Homeric Epics. We have translations of the epics that have been broken down into the same sentences as the Treebanks use so that we can align a translation and extensive linguistic analysis for any line in the epics. Finally, David Chamberlain has published under a creative commons license complete metrical analyses of the epics. Readers with no knowledge of Greek have now the tools by which to explore the Greek itself, at times reading particular passages intensely, at times exploring the meaning of a Greek word by seeing how it is used in multiple contexts, and and to begin reading it aloud as poetry.

Homer also served as a useful starting point because the dense network in increasingly expressive machine-actionable annotations are (at least for some of us) a natural, even necessary, next step in a philological tradition that extends thousands of years into the past. In the ancient world, scholars added new letters to distinguish (some) long and short vowels, developed a system of accentuation to represent the rising and falling pitch with which the language was pronounced. Editors in the era of print worked to apply more consistent forms of punctuation to capture, at least in part, the syntactic structure of the text. Geographic and biographical indices and lexica associated names with the people, divinities and places that appear in the texts. Machine actionable annotations have built upon these established forms and have fashioned new, truly born-digital models of annotation (such as Treebanks) that go well beyond the limitations of print.

## Tasks
### The Work of Art in an Age of Mechanical Reproduction.
### The duty of the translator and the Tableaux Parisiens
